DATE: 15/03/23 - 15 March 2023

Learning Tailwind CSS from start to finish.

BASICS

Tailwind CSS is a utility-first framework which allows you to style your HTML pages without leaving your HTML file.

The simple explanation of this is that you will have to add some utility classes within the HTML <tags>, and you can design your pages easily
by simply including these classes.

You will not have to write down CSS explicitly.

Advantages of Tailwind

Another reason to use Tailwind is its easy-to-use nature because when you write CSS explicitly in a different file and map it with the HTML file,
you might face some problems. But, when you mention the styles within the HTML file using tailwind utility classes,
the experience of development is enhanced and can be experienced only once you start making projects using Tailwind CSS.

STANDARD WEBSITE WORKFLOW

The standard workflow to design a website using HTML, CSS and Vanilla JavaScript
looks somewhat like this.
1) You create HTML files first, followed by CSS files.
2) We use IDs and classes in our HTML files and you style those IDs and classes in the CSS files.

As a result, you must exit the HTML file and enter the CSS file while styling.
Repeatedly switching between HTML, CSS or JavaScript is a pain in the neck while creating a project,
as going back and forth from the HTML and CSS files to design and remap it.

TAILWIND WORKFLOW

In Tailwind CSS, the workflow will look somewhat like this:
1) First, you shall set up Tailwind CSS and after include Tailwind CSS within your HTML file.
2) You will only have to write the HTML code within the HTML files. Without making separate CSS files.

Furthermore, the tag where you insert classes will be styled immediately and after reading only the HTML file, you will realize the
particular designs and styles an HTML tag is using.




TAILWIND SETUP (ONE WAY - SIMPLE WAY - VIA PLAYCDN)

We shall learn how to set up Tailwind CSS and its workflow, 
-> how to quickly use play CDN, a tool which enables the development of Tailwind CSS and
-> how to include Tailwind CSS in your production applications.

Tailwind CSS is rapidly evolving these days. Tailwind CSS v3.0, the classic engine has replaced the
JIT, i.e, the Just-In-Time engine.
Furthermore, an enhanced version of Play CDN has been released.

Let's begin with installing some tools.
1) First, install Visual Studio Code. If not, go ahead and install it and once done, open this folder.
If you have installed it properly, press File-> Open Folder or go to the Folder, right click and select Open with Code.
Once I do this, the folder will open as shown.

2) Now I could proceed to install Tailwind CSS but that is not really required.
Let me tell you what this means.

So, I created an HTML file named index. html. I put the boilerplate template and
simply started writing Tailwind here. Let me explain what this means.
I simply wrote div. container and pressed Enter.
I will put a heading within this and along with the heading,
I shall put a class named text black, or text yellow
or text blue.
Here, I shall write "text-blue-100" and along with this,

3) I shall include Tailwind CSS by going to the Tailwind documentation.
Then click on Get started. Once you do this and click Play CDN, you will see a script tag. Copy it and
paste it into your HTML file's head element. 
 <script src="https://cdn.tailwindcss.com"></script>

I shall now save this and install an extension named Live Server.

Once you install it and right-click on the page, you get an option
called Open with Live Server. Press it and you can see the statement "This is the blue text" on the screen.

I need to make "text-blue-100", and once done, the blue text appears.
Text-blue-100 implies a light blue colour and I shall quickly change 100 to 900
so that you can clearly see a darker shade. So we can add such classes and after doing so, we can create nice websites.
This is the beauty of Tailwind CSS and you style your page from the HTML file itself.

Now, I'd want to point out that Tailwind CSS is not a very complicated framework that will take you six, eight or twelve months to master.
With a basic understanding of HTML, CSS and JavaScript, you can master Tailwind CSS within a maximum of 2 weeks and practice for 1 month.

